---
title: Cost
permalink: /permalink/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<blockquote><h3>TradeTrust is available for free, anyone can implement using TradeTrust's open-source code.</h3></blockquote><p></p><p>Just pay for gas fees from as low as $0.00371* per transaction to use the blockchain.</p><p></p><h4><strong>Open-Source Software</strong></h4><p>TradeTrust's open-source code can be downloaded from <a href="https://github.com/TradeTrust/tradetrust-website" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">GitHub</a> under the open-source licensing terms. It can be easily integrated into any existing IT system as an enabler to trade digitalisation. the document processing and validation process.</p><p></p><p>Leveraging on the immutability and security of cutting-edge technologies like Blockchain, Smart Contracts and Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), governments and businesses like yours can create transferable documents into Electronic Transferable Records that have the legal ability^ to effect title transfer across different digital platforms seamlessly. A blockchain transaction fee, also known as gas fee, is incurred to execute a transaction on the blockchain and is paid to validators.</p><h6></h6><h4><strong>Cost of Operation - Transferable Documents</strong></h4><p>The gas fee varies with the role you are in the supply chain, trade document type and blockchain network.<br>Click on the persona to see how much it cost for each transaction based on blank-endorsed BL document flow.</p><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>Cost for The Exporter</p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="2"><table><tbody><tr><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Cost to transfer holdership</strong></p><p><strong>Ethereum: US$1.09*</strong></p><p><strong>Polygon: US$0.01*</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Cost to transfer ownership</strong></p><p><strong>Ethereum: US$8.14*</strong></p><p><strong>Polygon: US$0.05*</strong></p></th><th rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Total Cost</strong></p><p></p><p><strong>Ethereum: US$9.24*</strong></p><p><strong>Polygon: US$0.05*</strong></p></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="3"><p><strong>*Estimations based on the current gas average at 14 gwei (ETH), ETH price at USD $2264.07 for Ethereum and 133 gwei (MATIC), MATIC price at USD $0.8624 for Polygon as at 05/01/2024, 3:09:13 pm SGT.</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td></tr></tbody></table></th></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p></p></td></tr></tbody></table><p></p><p></p><p><em>*Transaction with the lowest gas fee as at 05/01/2024, 2:49:07 pm SGT: Cost to transfer holdership (Polygon).</em></p><h6><em>^Singapore's 2021 amendment of its Electronic Transactions Act (one of the first few internationally, enables the creation and use of ETRs such as electronic Bills of Lading) empowering practitioners to reap the benefits of digitalisation more easily.</em></h6><p></p>