---
title: Components
permalink: /about-tradetrust/what-is-tradetrust/components-of-tradetrust/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: What is TradeTrust
---
<h4><strong>4 Key Components of TradeTrust</strong></h4><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Legal Harmonisation</p></li></ol><p>In March 2021, the Singapore’s Electronic Transactions Act (ETA) and other related Acts were amended to adopt with modifications the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) Model Law on Electronic Transferable Records (MLETR). This provides legal validity for electronic negotiable documents through compliance to MLETR requirements. Your TradeTrust-issued trade documents that are exchanged can be legally recognised in other jurisdictions to increase legal confidence and commercial predictability of cross-border transactions. You can now eliminate the use of contractual legal framework/rulebook.</p><p></p><ol start="2" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Standards Development</p></li></ol><p>TradeTrust works with international standards bodies like UN/CEFACT, ISO and UNESCAP to develop standards to be aligned with TradeTrust design principles. And to ensure neutrality, proper governance and global acceptance, by adopting TradeTrust, you will conform to internationally-accepted standards and its accreditation framework endorsed by international bodies.</p><p></p><ol start="3" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Accreditation Framework</p></li></ol><p>Certify technical solutions meet the requirements of the law.</p><p></p><ol start="4" data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>Software Components</p></li></ol><p>The set of TradeTrust software components is available free for all so that you can easily integrate into your backend business solution/application or proprietary platform and are distributed open-source so that participants like you (government or private-sector) can assure themselves of what the software code does.</p><p>The TradeTrust software components can be viewed as a middleware that you can plug into any compatible blockchains to accomplish the functions of assuring authenticity, source and legally-valid performance obligation transfers. Your current data/document format will be supported since TradeTrust is payload agnostic with no data format restriction and data is not kept on the blockchain to preserve your data confidentiality</p><p></p><p></p>