---
title: Design Principles
permalink: /about-tradetrust/what-is-tradetrust/design-principles/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: What is TradeTrust
---
<h4>5 Design Principles of TradeTrust</h4><p><strong>Public Blockchain</strong><br><em>No central governance authority</em><br>Leveraging on the strength of its immutability and security of cutting-edge technologies like Blockchain, Smart Contracts and Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), TradeTrust enables a fully decentralised approach to manage the transactions of electronic Bill of Ladings (eBLs) from their issuance to surrender, eliminating the need for all transacting parties of the same eBL to use a common digital platform. TradeTrust also uses Decentralised Identifiers (DID), digital signatures and cryptographic proof methods to verify the source and authenticity of documents.</p><p></p><p><strong>Data Off-Chain</strong><br><em>Preserves data confidentiality</em><br>Your data is not kept on the blockchain to preserve the data confidentiality.</p><p></p><p><strong>Payload Agnostic</strong><br><em>No data format or standard restriction</em><br>Your current data or document formats of any document will be supported since TradeTrust is payload agnostic with no data format restriction.</p><p></p><p><strong>Open-Source</strong><br><em>Full transparency for faster adoption</em><br>TradeTrust software components are distributed open-source so that participants (both government and private-sector) can assure themselves of what the software code does. The software components aim to simplify your technical integration work.</p><p></p><p><strong>MLETR^-Compliant</strong><br><em>Meet the requirements of the law (for electronic negotiable documents)</em><br>TradeTrust enables the digitalisation of electronic documents that is intended to be legally equivalent to their paper-based counterparts under Singapore and other MLETR-compliant statutory law. This provides legal certainty to electronic title/transferable documents like your e-Bill of Lading.</p><p></p><p></p>