---
title: Overview
permalink: /about-tradetrust/what-is-isomer/overview/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: What is TradeTrust
---
<h4>ONE framework for trade digitalisation</h4><p>TradeTrust is a <strong>framework </strong>for anyone to embark on trade digitalisation to address difficulties with paper documentation in cross border trade easily and for free.</p><p>TradeTrust is also a <strong>digital utility </strong>that is accessible to businesses of all sizes. With its open-source code available for free download, integrating TradeTrust into your existing IT system is easy, driving the digital transformation of your trade processes.  Or subscribe to the services offered by TradeTrust enabled <a href="https://www.tradetrust.io/partners" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">partners</a> to start your transactions.</p><p>You can use TradeTrust to <strong>digitise any document</strong> and <strong>effect title transfer for titled document </strong>like bill of lading which is portable <strong>across different digital platforms.  </strong>Recipients of your document can <strong>verify its source and authenticity</strong> simply with an internet access. This means achieving end-to-end digital processing of trade documents, making international trade more efficient and secure for you and your trading partners.  </p><p>TradeTrust enables a fully <strong>decentralised approach</strong> to manage business transactions, eliminating the need for you and all your transacting parties to use a common digital platform and contractual rulebook.</p><h4>TWO document types : Verifiable Documents and Transferable Documents</h4><p>You can use TradeTrust to digitise trade documents into two broad categories: </p><ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p><strong>Normal documents/Verifiable documents</strong> such as the Certificate of Origin where the provenance and authenticity of the e-document can be easily verified by any party;</p></li><li><p><strong>Transferable Documents</strong> such as Bill of Lading where the e-document’s title ownership can be transferred from one party to another.  Transferable Documents is digitised<strong> </strong>into Electronic Transferable Records (ETRs) using blockchain technology. To transact, businesses need not rely on a contractual legal framework for title transfer since TradeTrust enables the digitalisation of<strong> electronic documents that is intended to be legally equivalent to their paper-based counterparts</strong> under Singapore and other MLETR*-compliant statutory law.</p></li></ol><p>By leveraging international standards and frameworks</p><h4>THREE key functionalities</h4><p>TradeTrust empowers anyone to seamlessly<strong> verify the (1) authenticity and (2) provenance of documents</strong>, facilitating smooth <strong>(3) title transfers</strong> of<strong> </strong>transferable documents across digital platforms. </p><p>By reducing the costs and risks associated with paper-based documentation,<strong> </strong>TradeTrust connects governments and businesses to a public blockchain, ensuring<strong> trusted interoperability</strong> of electronic trade documents <strong>across digital platforms</strong>.</p><h4>What is it for you</h4><p></p><p></p><p>*<em>MLETR = Model Law on Electronic Transferable Records published by United Nations Commission on International Trade Law in Sept 2017</em></p><p></p>