---
title: Singapore's ETA
permalink: /eta/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<h2><strong>Electronic Transactions Act (ETA)</strong></h2><p></p><h4>What is Singapore's ETA?</h4><p>In Singapore, the Electronic Transactions Act (ETA) was first enacted in July 1998 to provide a legal foundation for electronic transactions, and to give predictability and certainty to contracts formed electronically. It does not mandate the use of electronic signatures or transactions and facilitates their use where parties choose to transact electronically.</p><p>As such, only paper documents were legally valid under statute law of Singapore until recently.</p><p></p><h4>2021 Amendment</h4><p>In March 2021, the ETA was amended to ensure that Singapore’s legal and regulatory infrastructure keeps pace with international trade law and the latest technological advancements. The ETA was amended to adopt the <a href="https://uncitral.un.org/en/texts/ecommerce/modellaw/electronic_transferable_records" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Model Law on Electronic Transferable Records</a> (MLETR) published by United Nations Commission on International Trade Law in September 2017. The Model Law on Electronic Transferable Records (MLETR) aims to enable the legal use of electronic transferable records both domestically and across borders.</p><p>This enables the creation and use of Electronic Transferable Records (ETRs) or transferable documents or negotiable instruments such as electronic bills of lading (eBLs), which are key documents for international trade. Previously, usage of electronic versions of BLs had been difficult due to technological and legal challenges in establishing what is the "original document" and "who possesses it".</p><h4>Benefits to Trade</h4><p>The Electronic Transactions Act (ETA) facilitates the use of e-commerce and e-transactions by giving e-contracts and e-signatures the same status as written contracts and signatures. In short, your electronic documents will be functionally equivalent to their paper versions if the governing law is under one of the statutory law - Singapore, New York, Delaware and other <a href="https://uncitral.un.org/en/texts/ecommerce/modellaw/electronic_transferable_records/status" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">MLETR-compliant jurisdictions</a> including United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates-Abu Dhabi Global Market and more.</p><p>Transferable documents and instruments are essential commercial tools.&nbsp; Their availability in electronic form may be greatly beneficial for facilitating electronic commerce by, for example, improving speed and security of transmission, permitting the reuse of data and automating certain transactions through "smart contracts".</p><p></p><p></p><p></p><p></p>