---
title: What is TradeTrust
permalink: /about-tradetrust/what-is-isomer/overview/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<p>At the heart of international trade, <strong>TradeTrust</strong>, developed and pioneered by<strong> Singapore’s Infocomm Media Development Authority</strong> (IMDA), is designed to make trade easier and more secure for businesses like yours. By reducing the costs and risks associated with paper-based documentation, TradeTrust is a framework that connects governments and businesses to a public blockchain, ensuring trusted interoperability of electronic trade documents across digital platforms.</p><p>TradeTrust is also a digital utility that's accessible to businesses of all sizes. With its open-source code available for free, integrating TradeTrust into your existing systems is easy, driving the digital transformation of your trade processes.</p><p>By leveraging international standards and frameworks, TradeTrust supports the digitalisation of trade documents into two broad categories: Verifiable Documents and Transferable Documents. Through the digitalisation of Transferable Documents into Electronic Transferable Records (ETRs) using blockchain technology, TradeTrust empowers anyone to seamlessly<strong> verify the authenticity and provenance of documents</strong>, facilitating smooth<strong> title transfers</strong> of<strong> </strong>transferable documents across digital platforms. This means achieving end-to-end digital processing of trade documents, making international trade more efficient and secure for you and your trading partners.</p><p>Anyone can implement and start using TradeTrust.</p>